Hello everyone.
I want to talk about why I built Sky for a Bridge
and some of the technical challenges behind it.
My name is Ryo.
I'm from Japan.
This is my first time speaking at an international conference, so
I'm a bit nervous.
But I'm very happy to be here and very grateful to
Blue Sky for the support.
So I work very hard to memorize the first part.
But after this, I'll leave from my home.
Please give me a - let me start.
I learned this tool because of my personal experience.
When Blue Sky first appeared, I was really excited.
A new social network was starting and it was open.
I thought that was very interesting, so I made an account
early.
But when I started using it, it felt a little lonely
.
Why?
Because I did not know many people there.
Making account was easy.
But when I looked at my timeline, the people I usually
follow were not there.
My friends, my co-workers and people like to
leave where are missing.
Without
familiar people, a social network can feel very bright.
So I started doing this by hand.
I think many people do the same.
I open the blue sky search
, type the name or username or someone I knew from X
, and if I found them, I follow them.
Then I searched for the next person and the next person.
But if it was hard, it took a lot of time
.
It was trying, tiring.
And some time, I still could not find the right person
because the name was a little different or they use a different
account.
Then I thought, this is not just my problem.
A lot of people moving to blue sky, we are doing
the same thing.
So I thought, it should be easier.
But I thought, this is not just my problem.
A lot of people moving to blue sky, we are doing
the same thing.
So I thought, it should be easier.
That is why I build Sky for a bridge.
This tool reads the people you follow on platform like X,
looks for matching blue sky account and helps you follow them more
easily.
It helps with task people we are doing one by one by
hand.
First, I think it is easy to understand with the demo
.
So let me show you one.
Open your profile
on X.
Click the Sky for a bridge extension.
Enter your handle and log in.
Open your following list.
Click the extension again.
Let's find Blue Sky users.
Scanning your following list.
Detecting Blue Sky users.
OK, let's check results.
About 500 users spawned.
On the left, X users.
On the right, much Blue Sky users.
Oh, thank you.
Let's follow one.
Check it on Blue Sky.
Follows successfully.
Unfollowed.
Unfollowed successfully.
And so that's how easy it is to follow users.
Thank you.
That's the end of the term
.
There was a useful future, too.
So please try, if you're interested, you can use
it on Chrome and Firefox.
Next, I want to talk about two technical challenges.
The first challenge was how to get the list of people of
user followers.
How do we get the list of people of user followers?
At first, I thought I would use the API, but
then X changed that a lot.
As many of you remember, API access became very expensive for
an individual developer like me.
That was not realistic.
So I changed my approach.
Instead of using the API, I use the browser page.
The user was looking at.
The user was already logged in, and the falling list was
already on the screen.
So I viewed our browser extension.
It reads the information directly from the DOM.
That becomes a starting point, this tool.
So it also gives me a clear structure.
Only the first part depends on each platform.
That part is reading the page.
After that, the rest can be shared.
Searching for blue sky accounts, showing the result, following
account, and running search.
And because of that, it became much easier to support my
platform.
Right now, X, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, and
threads.
Of course, every platform has different DOM, so it is
not easy.
But this design made it much easier to add support for more
platform.
The second challenge was matching accuracy.
How do you find the right person?
This part was very important.
People do not always use the same name across platforms.
Some things the name is similar, and some time is complex
difference.
So find the right blue sky account is not easy.
I use a few methods together.
The basic one are the display name and account name.
I also use the profile text to become some people put their
blue sky account in the X profile.
Recently, I added the avatar image matching.
Many people use some profile image across platforms.
So I use that as a hint.
This works better than I expected.
Over time, the project also became much bigger than I expected
.
Now, people from many countries use it, and it has
been downloaded more than 520,000.
Thank you.
When I started this project, I never thought so many people
would use it.
That is still surprising to me.
And I was very happy when the official blue sky account shared
it, and when users told me it helps them.
What I learned is simple.
When people move to new social network, making an account is
easy.
Finding people again is a hard part.
And when we have to help with that, moving become much
easier.
So I want to leave you with one message.
Open protocol needs migration, too.
Open technology is important.
But if we want people to really move, we also need
bridges.
Skyflower Bridge is one of those bridges, and I hope
we will see many more in the future.
Oh, thank you.
Appendix.
And once more appendix, there are also more attendees from
Japan.
Masaya is exploring the AT protocol ecosystem, and Nori
aki Watanabe is the author of Swift AdProt
.
So please say hi if you see them at the conference.
Thank you.